Good morning, everyone. Good morning. I'm sorry that we're late today, but anyway, thank you very
much, everyone.
And thank you for participating, everyone. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Before we begin the session, we do again just a few minutes of silence meditation.
And then we begin with the lineage prayers that I think many of you all have started with the seven
-line prayers.
So thank again your participation and as well as your enthusiasm. Thank you.
Trash delays. Now we do short silence meditation.
Thank you.
Okay, thank you, everyone. Now we begin seven-line prayer. If you have this booklet, this open
prayer booklet is paid 14 of those people who need this booklet, seven-line prayers.
Again, of course, every practice, when we do in the Buddha teachings or teachings of Gungarupi Maas
ambhavam, always reflecting joy and appreciation, and then devotion and bodhicatam, and all those so
important to activate our good qualities of the inner natures.
And we are opening the door of our goodness. So, therefore, again, we activate the joy and
appreciation, devotion, bodhicatam, feel strong presence of Gungarupi Maasambhavam, and all lineage
masters, then we do these practices.
And then we also follow the teaching according our capabilities, or maybe I should say according my
capabilities, our sambhala teachings, according to the teachings of the great Master, His Holiness
of the Nirvana, and then so that's what we do.
So please, again, reflect with our beautiful motivations.
(Singing)
Now we do the page 20, but we're not usually we insert some lineage prayers. And today, I don't
think we're going to insert those. So we're going to straight through the, as this booklet, this
time, as this booklet that was more simple, next time, then when we meet again, then maybe if you
have that copies, and we will do all that, okay.
All the lineage prayers that were, we usually insert with the right after this page 20, before the
page 21.
(Singing)
Now we do the reggae subtle mantra three times.
This individual who needs the spray of mantra of reggae subtle is in page 76 of this booklet, page
76.
(Singing)
Now, go back to the page 24, start the mandala offering and recurse the teachings.
Go back to the English.
According to the wishes of the sentient beings, their capacities for the high and the low, common
and common weaker, please turn the wheel of Dharma.
(Singing)
Again, thank you very much everyone for participating, and again, I'm sorry it will be late, but
this time, actually what we're going to do, I'm going to go over the teaching of the great Master,
His only Dhanjung Rinpoche, which is known as the heart advice for the 14th ones, by His only Dhanj
ung Rinpoche, so heart advice for the 14th ones,
and together with the healing practices, this time is a very difficult time in the whole world
experiencing different things.
I thought if we do this also healing practice, which is part of our bodhicata practices, part of
our essential practices, actualizing bodhicata practice, not just wishing bodhicata,
so which is a layout by all these great lineage masters thought to do those healing practices.
So, that means that I'm going to talk again of this teaching, what I'm referring to his own Dhanj
ung Rinpoche teaching, short time, but also what I'm going to do, not just go through fast this
teaching,
I'm going to also slowly little bit and try to explore the meaning of the great teacher of bodhicak
ya manis, teaching of bodhicakya mani, so that we can observe in our heart and mind.
Many of you already know Buddhism, I'm sure you've studied so much, and some of those you don't may
be so familiar, some really contribution for particularly those who don't know very much, we're
exploring now.
And those individually who knows already, it is reminding.
What in the Buddha teaching said?
Studying, contemplations, not just hearing sometimes and then understanding kind of like as
intellectually and leave that.
We have to observe that what we studied, what we did intellectually, analyze it to our heart,
and then get the fruit result.
As old as our great master's, lineage master's, they achieve that goal by doing, studying,
contemplating and meditating practices,
with the endeavors or joyful effort, with joy, in appreciation, in bodhicata, with the determin
ations.
That's really what they activated.
I would like to become one of those great master's in the world.
We always hear, we always talk.
That's the only way.
Studying, contemplating practices, observe to the heart.
So therefore, this round I'm going to go slowly at magic and explore the meaning of the words.
In order to do that, again, we begin always in the teachings of the great master's.
Always, we correct the motivations.
Motivation is foundation.
Motivation is mind.
Mind is invisible that we know.
We all know we have the mind, but nobody, even one's own self, we don't see our mind.
How is invisible?
Behind the scenes.
But behind the scenes, this mind is ruling our every activities.
What that means?
Activity of samsara, activity of nirvana, activity path to the nirvana.
Everything is ruled by this unvisible, behind the scenes, powerful mind.
And who can control, who can do this correct way?
Nobody else can do except one's own self.
Individually, we can direct the mind even though it is invisible.
Invisible mind will direct the invisible mind as like homopedic techniques.
Others cannot do, no matter.
Even the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, himself said,
"I can show you the techniques, but once you have got the techniques and the teachings, then it's
up to you."
You have to put hands.
Nobody else is going to do for us.
We are going to do ourselves.
So, that means we have to take full responsibility of our destinations and our identities, our
qualities.
And therefore, motivation is the foundation.
And that is what? What kind of motivation this time?
As, of course, you all know.
Joy and appreciation.
And these three motivations.
Joy and appreciation as one guru.
And vidhi, second is bodhicata and third is purity, realizations.
Purity, understanding.
Those three motivations.
It's all mind.
It's all mind, but slightly different.
Mind is rich of all everything.
Our mind is invisible.
Even though we don't see, we can't detect exactly that the mind is full of the richness.
And full of everything, actually.
So, this time we are going to revert the richness of our goodness, the treasures.
And that means, when we revert this, what is going to be?
As happy, more peaceful, more calm, more soothing, more down to the earth, more humble, humble,
more humility.
Really, then we can see the goodness around us.
Prison time, many times, we don't see our goodness around us.
We always focus one direction with narrowly and ignore the 99% or maybe 85 or 7%.
But when you begin to settle down on our own goodness naturals, then when you look around,
the beauty will shine.
The infinite, endless goodness really will shine.
And therefore, again, to do that is the mind.
Every teaching said, all the great masters said, so therefore, joy and appreciation.
Even though we have the other difficult troubles, there is a lot of reasons to feel happy and joy,
ourselves.
And particularly in the Buddha teaching, to be as a human being.
As a human being is very, very special.
It's not just a quote, it's insignificant or insignificant, not casual.
These persons, our human body is so special, really so powerful, so special.
And to feel happy and joy, we've got one of our beautiful lives, and we are beautiful human beings.
Therefore, we get acknowledgement and have some courage and commitment, determination,
that I'm going to use my beautiful life, something for the good purposes.
That would benefit to me, my family, my friends, my loved ones, all the everyone.
That is the way to start with joy and appreciation.
Then in the greatest teachings, the Buddha Kya Kya kyamuni, essential teachings,
it's the Bodhi jata you all know, that we know.
I mean, not just you know, I know, I heard, I mean, I heard, you heard.
We all heard Bodhi jata.
Love and kindness, compassion, we combine, we worship them, worship them to all the living beings.
Really thinking that.
Today we are gathering and going to reflect and activate my understanding of the Buddha teaching,
in the teaching of Gharipam and Samba.
I've got to benefit all beings.
Those are the teachings said, if you do that, that becomes more powerful.
It's more powerful to help others, also more powerful to help ourselves,
to deepen our realization and bring the growth.
And purify some really of those unwanted, unnecessary obscurations,
habit patterns in the teaching set.
It is really wonderful spiritual.
Then, together with that, with purity understanding.
Why I am talking the purity understanding or realization?
Because according to Vajrayana teaching, that many, we all practice Vajrayana teaching.
What Vajrayana teaching said?
Entirely universe is enlightened status.
All the forms are enlightenment forms.
All the sounds are enlightenment songs.
Mind and spaces are enlightened.
See that.
And then in some more kind of detail level, Vajrayana teaching said,
five aggregators are five Dhyana buddhas.
Five elementals are five female buddhas.
Everything!
In the teaching, even Gharipam and Samba, even Buddha is his enlightenment,
or Buddha's his or his enlightenment.
Looking to everywhere, if there is something impurity,
they are never going to find.
That means everything is enlightened.
Originally enlightened.
Not publicly enlightened.
Already purity status.
Why we don't see, like such as us.
Why we don't see?
Because we have the cataracts of the duality mind.
Duality, ignorance.
It is a cataract.
It is blocked, shield.
Who created that?
By our self.
We created the cocoon, like cataracts.
Shield every of our directions and block our beauties.
And when we release, remove that cataract of the duality and obscurations.
Then enlightenment is here, according to the teaching.
Right here.
According to teaching, according to the great masters.
According to that who got realizations.
Therefore, even those great masters, great practitioners,
looks like a peer.
They are going through so much difficult troubles and challenges,
all conditions.
But their heart is full of joy.
Full of appreciation.
They are singing the songs of how beautiful, how greatness, how wonderful.
Really, they are singing the songs.
You read those books.
So many books are now translated into English.
Of course, so many books in the tomatoes.
And many great masters see it.
They are just not pretending something.
Truly, seeing everything is in that ordinary purity status.
Truly, they see, five, I would get, get five dhyana buddhas.
Five elements are five female buddhas.
That.
So, therefore, to activate that, we have to open the door right now.
Even we don't see exactly as that, but at least everything is in purity state.
Kind of leaning toward that purity, the ordinary state is our responsibility.
Our practices.
That's how we are going to open the true beauty of the enlightenment,
or ordinary nature.
We use it as enlightenment, but according to the Buddha teaching, it is natural.
The ordinary nature is nothing more and less than the simple nature with things up.
For ourselves, we are completely covered up by the duality as cataracts.
I use the example.
Or we can use some other examples, but it shields up, covered up.
So, those are the reasons we practice.
With those beautiful motivation, now we go over this.
I went this teaching a while ago, last time.
We went this kind of way, mostly like some degree of this teachings.
But I thought, since it's so small, short, and I go over, really those what I went last time,
and maybe that way to explore a little bit more kind of, again, the meaning of these beautiful
teachings.
And then, so, then we go what where we last time, we stopped.
That is more details.
First, this teaching is taught by his Holiness, Dunyur Rinpoche, in it's bed,
because Chhabji, Dunyur Rinpoche.
And Chhabji is, what that means?
Supreme Lord or Supreme Protactors, from the samsara troubles,
or from the trouble of the negative emotions.
Therefore, this honor of a world, in it's bed world, Chhabji, Chhabji.
That is not just a kind of a personal title to his Holiness, Dunyur Rinpoche.
All the great Masters are named with that title.
Chhabji, this and that, then put the names.
So, this time, Chhabji, Dunyur Rinpoche or Igni, his Holiness, Dunyur Rinpoche.
He was one of the great Masters in the 20th century.
Great Tirtum, the revealers, represented the origin of the Gaurabhammasambhavas.
Great scholars, great writers, great poetry.
But yet, he is so humble and simple, drawn to the earth.
And he is not showy, he is drawn to the earth, so humble, so simple.
His father, his husband, he was a father.
But yet, his realization, wisdom, is brilliant.
That you can feel, even though, through this category of duality in mind,
you don't see, but you really can feel power, feel the energy,
the power of his enlightenment realization.
Those individuals who receive that, such as the great Master of that,
his time, all appreciated to him.
All those great Masters, really great practitioners,
appreciated of his realization, his wisdom, his fulfillment, who he was.
So this, he taught so many teachings, there is about 25 books are published now.
There is maybe more unpublished, but 25 volumes of the books are published.
And from that, this is one of those.
Simple, but very targeted, very simple, direct teaching.
Very simple way, as his Dunyur Madhyam Selmas, very simple person.
Simple, ordinary, talented earth, humble.
Really, I said, so beautiful, so spiritual, so beautiful.
His teaching, so here he said, he said, heart advice, from what?
That means what?
From his heart, by what?
With love and compassion, to all those beings who like to pursue,
pursue and discover, they enter the nature.
So that's what the title says here.
Heart advice to the 14 ones.
One, with the window is intubated, is not oscillated in English.
By my love, he said, with my love, I give this heart advice.
Heart advice.
So in essence of the entire teaching of the Buddha Chakra Muni,
Buddha Chakra Muni gave teachings as you all know.
At 35 he started teaching, after his reaching enlightenment.
Until he entered Mahaparin Nirvana, at 81, 82, or 80, there's different versions,
but he gave over 45 years non-stop teachings.
As an individualist and a student recorded their desire,
their capabilities, and their needs, Buddha gave those teachings.
Buddha's teachings are never overloaded or enforced.
Buddha's teaching is teaching of reason, teaching of the simple,
teaching of common senses.
Buddha's teaching is known to the earth.
Very practical, very practical.
And there, Buddha himself said, I'm teacher, I'm simply teacher, nothing else.
I'm teaching what I realize, what I see, that I am sharing.
That's what Buddha said.
And in that way, Buddha become one of the great masters in this world,
or great teachers in this world.
So that's what he's teaching.
And then, so this teaching encompasses really all the teachings.
Those teachings are known as Nayana teachings.
But all the teachings, generally in Buddhism, what I said,
can summarize down to the practical level, practical level, up to practice level.
I said, practice level, down to the three topics.
Every teaching can simplify down to the three simple practices.
Those teachings are known as, of course, you all know.
You all heard, I mean, including me, we all heard that.
What are those?
Those are known as morality teachings,
concentration teachings, wisdom teachings.
That's an entirely teaching.
All those 45 years' teachings can be summarized when you come to the practice,
when person practices these three.
Morality, concentration, and wisdom.
So this teaching encompasses all those teachings,
essential level.
Level, the teaching compasses the morality,
the teaching compasses, it tells of the concentrations,
it tells of the wisdom.
So this is the whole teaching of the Buddhas,
the condensed one, that came from the heart,
the loving heart, of the His only Benjur Rinpoche,
to the dedicated practitioners.
And this, of course, when he draw this to one individual,
but this is not just only that individual, to all of us.
We are the 14 ones.
We have the beautiful, as a life of human beings,
we are beautiful human beings.
We have the teaching, we have the capabilities,
we have the opportunities, we have the freedom to practice.
Truly, we have, and we are also something to strengthen the knowledge
and the wisdom to understand it.
Then, that is fortunate.
What else is?
That is really truly fortunate.
But this fortunate one, we have to make more beautiful symbols.
We have to take this opportunity,
make something really even better, beautiful,
for ourselves, for all the beings.
So, that is really about the title.
And then, I think already I mentioned this,
I don't know if I have to go over this.
Dedicated practitioners at Yangnaykub.
Yangnaykub is in Nepal, it is a place, a holy place,
where Guru Pia Masambhava practices the Vajrakalaya
in the Yangdai Heruka, among at Heruka practices.
He practices, and in the teaching said,
even though Guru Pia Masambhava is already enlightened beings,
but he demonstrates by practicing of the Vajrakalaya
and the Yangdai Heruka combined together,
he actualized of the Vidyadhara status
or the Mahamudra status in the teachings.
But he got enlightenment,
who achieved the same as Vajrakalaya Realizations.
With the consult of Vasram Dakini,
known as Parmo-Hyakta Devi and Parabhinkala cities,
two great Vasram Dakinis joined with him
and practices on Vajrakalaya and the Yangdai Heruka
combined together and actualized Realizations of that.
So that place, Yangnaykub is in Tibet, called Yangnaykub.
You consider it one of the very holy spots
in Vajrayana Buddhism or Tibet Buddhism.
So, there is a practitioner, known as the second time,
who said that Cardin Dhava, who is disciple of his Holiness,
as well as his Holiness, Chabjay Chaddar Rambochana.
Maybe you heard his name.
He was one of the great, really, masters in the 20th century,
in the 21st century, and he has such a long life.
He stayed over a hundred years,
and he was completely non-vegetarian.
What's the question? I'm using the wrong word.
He is completely vegetarian.
Vegetarian and the proof of the alcohols
and smoking, all those are really kind of highlighted,
like, ethics of his old disciples.
No meat, no alcohols, no smoking, or any of those things.
So, that's the reason.
And then he rinsomed this great Chaddar Rambochana.
I think it's millions of the animals he released.
Millions, I think.
So, he was his student, too, as well as many others,
such as his Indian Chantal Rambochana, all that.
So, then he told this slide.
So, then he chose it.
And so, fortunately, that who passed, that gave that.
So, I gave this instruction from love, from my heart.
I mean, he said that, even that.
Now, so, up to that, three lines is, in a way,
the beginning of this how, the layout of how,
why his own dungeon was a condensant to give it teaching,
because this Dawa, Kaddi Dawa, the fortune name Dawa,
is a very dedicated practitioner.
He thought he needed more simple to put it in the practice,
simple teaching to put it in the practice.
Therefore, he gave these teachings.
And now, the teaching itself.
Now, what begins?
Four lines, say here, to take full advantage of life,
that is so difficult to obtain,
or so difficult to obtain,
and to resolve it to the pre-sansal,
from the ocean of the samsara, of suffering.
So, those, then, from here, begins the teachings.
Now, the first one, what is said here,
to take full advantage of the life,
that is so difficult to obtain.
According to Buddha's teaching,
according to Buddhism,
the life what we have now, such this kind of life,
is really difficult to obtain, difficult to obtain.
Why? It needs so much perfect cause,
and so many conditions.
And to come together,
the cause and the condition is not always easy.
So, that means that if something, there is a good result,
there is something that we see,
it has so many beautiful, it has beautiful cause,
but it has so many beautiful conditions,
supported to have this teaching, to this life.
It is very, very special.
And what in the Buddha's teaching said,
said, as total, blind total, wandering in the ocean,
and this is just an example, it is not something that has happened,
it is not just a story of that, but there is one total,
and his lifespan is so many,
so many, like a thousand years, if that happens.
And he is wandering in the ocean,
that means from east to the west, to the south, to the north,
just wandering, third. And in that ocean,
there is a yoke, Y-O-K-E, yoke.
Yoke is flowing on that ocean,
and carrying by the wind, wherever wind blows,
blows comes, go in that direction.
And wind comes from the east,
that yoke is carrying, blowing to the west,
or from north to the south.
I mean, again, it is just floating, floating.
And this total never had the intention to go,
go and catch the yoke, never had the intentions.
And no, yoke, not waiting, somebody will catch yoke, floating yokes.
But in a hundred years, that yoke comes once and out of the surface,
surface, one hundred years, that has used examples.
And then when it comes, one time, the yoke,
the whole of yoke, yoke, when the turtles come up his neck,
and it just went in, whole of the yoke.
How sudden that is? How sudden is this?
In the Buddha teaching, the priest is alive, is even more sudden
than the head of the turtle up to a hundred years coming
to the whole of the yoke.
Entering, entering the head of the yoke in the whole of the,
sorry, entering the head of the turtle, sorry,
entering the head of the turtle,
the head of the turtle is entering the, in the whole of the yoke.
It is even more, that is so sudden.
But even our life is more sudden, more precious.
Really in the teaching, see it, see that.
But that is teaching, like, I mean that is teaching,
a coded teaching and a scientific also.
Really I saw, maybe quite a while ago, mentioning that they say,
the Buddha teaching said those, but when you examine
how our self is concepted in Mother's womb,
they see, it is amazing, it is just something marvelous happened.
Otherwise there is so many hindrances, obstacles to conceiving that.
The poem that they share, those stages, different stages,
really scientific research, evidence guided and so,
that is something kind of amazing, you see it.
So that means that this has so many cause and conditions,
so many cause and the conditions.
Conditions come together about this life.
Therefore, in the Buddhism teaching always it,
the spiritual life of our self, what we have is,
18 endowments at freedom, 10 luxuries.
And you all know those, I am not going to elicit that.
That is so special, at freedom and 10 luxuries.
Particularly well we are practicing, meditating, activating,
we have full 18 endowments.
We may miss the place, decrease the practice,
maybe then our 18 endowments, particularly those luxuries, 10 luxuries, decreasing.
Decreasing is fluctuating that.
But when we are practicing and activating full bloom with our at freedoms,
then truly we have the 18 endowments.
We can observe ourselves how much luxuries we have, 10 luxuries.
Again, I am not going to elicit those, you know already we did before
and so many books they are available and so you know that.
But there is 5 luxuries related with others, 5 luxuries related with ourselves,
total 10 you can check up yourself how much luxuries I have.
Every of all 10 are intact, should be happy in joy,
have more courage, more commitment that I am going to maintain this
and I am going to make perfect benefit to myself.
Life is so precious, great Master Shanti Deva said,
life is in teaching said this is a boat, B-O-A-T boat to cross the ocean of the samsara.
This life is so precious, without this life or this precious human body
we will not cross the ocean of samsara.
So therefore, take the full advantage, don't neglect this precious life
or this opportunity is right our side, right our favor.
If some of you neglect it, then we are missing the point,
truly we are really missing the point.
Therefore, take full advantage with the courage, commitment, same time
pray to the Buddhas, Gaurabhema, Samba, Buddha, Dharma, Sanghas
may I fulfill meaning of this my life to benefit to all the beings
and to benefit one's own self.
Generally in the teachings when you benefit with other beings
naturally it will benefit to you, to our self.
But pray, courage and commitment and determination
combined together with prayers in both each other thought
will make more secure to fulfill our wishes, our inspirations, that.
And so therefore, then in here teaching said here
then here said, what is it, in the portal one, two, three, four, fifth line
the resolve of the to free one's self from the ocean of samsara, samsara
and so this is now the resolve to free one's self from the ocean of the samsaras.
Here what I said in it a bit, so what I said the word samsara
then and is like samsara and then ocean and then suffering
so those are the highlight word and like to free or like to come out of this
and this is generally now when gracious teacher Bodhacharya Kamuni reached enlightenment
age 35 he turned well of Dharma which that we all know, know and I'm also
it's not something that talking you don't know but I'm talking these things
to also reactivate our appreciations to gracious teacher Bodhacharya Kamuni
and all the lineage masters and in death sentence and then also reflection
our memories as I said over our knowledge of the Buddha teachings.
Now the samsara when Buddha give the teaching what is it, this four noble truth the first
among the four noble truth the teaching first it is what, suffering truth
cause was suffering truth then second one is a sacred truth cause of a path truth
sorry path truth so these those are the four noble truth.
Suffering truth cause of a suffering truth what is that, that is samsara
suffering truth cause of suffering truth is a samsara and the sacred truth
and path truth is a nirvana sorry nirvana so samsara nirvana what it indicate
directly this is samsara has a cause nirvana has a cause
without the cause there is no samsara without the cause there is no nirvana
and a lot more larger view of this teaching what in Buddhism known as
dependent teachings interdependent teachings is interconnected teachings
cause and the condition singly not producing but they are dependent to each other
connected to each other then when is also that cause and condition is not just
enough the right cause right condition need to produce so that means perfect cause
if I use the word perfect conditions come together well produce the result
whatever that may be it will produce whether that is samsara whether that is
a nirvana without the cause and condition there is nothing well developed
this is a great gracious kindness compared to teachers the hallmark teachings
hallmark this is what known as interdependent or ting jai never nirvana in it a bit
this teaching is really the core of all the great masters is extra only teachings
teachings it is not that this cause is developing someone by someone else
have to be a perfect cause that is not result is not coming without the cause
without the conditions and the result is not developed by the that no cause no
conditions and is not produced by someone else but just producing by its own self
by those combination or that their activity that is known as the essential
point of the ting jai never new so therefore this is like suffering truth
cause of suffering truth that is samsara that is samsara
and we don't like the suffering suffering then we should avoid cause of
sufferings sufferings we know they're avoiding cause of suffering suffering
will never stop because we create any suffering those samsara so that is a
samsara samsara is a Sanskrit word in the Tibetan called korwa and if it
oscillated into English spanning spanning or rotating so that means what rotating
rotate it to where to the six rams in the Buddha teaching said six rams
what are those of course we all know hell rams hungry ghost rams animal rams
human rams asura rams or demigod and God's the ram those are the six rams
that that is those that that is those area we are roaming we are wondering
we're rotating who are wondering ourself our each of our individualist for those
reasons in the Buddha teaching said we human beings or not just human sending
beings named are like goer g-o-e-r I believe goer or the mover that's the name
for all the beings because we never stays in one areas one place for long
enough always moving larger level we are moving small level we are moving
our mind is moving everything is moving our life is moving according to Buddha
teaching life is also really moving and then to do all those different names by
why we are wondering all those different names by once our own creations
that is known as then karma or our own activities are pushing come back wind
are fluting our self as a york on the ocean surface of the samsaras all the
time for that reason is the movers how long we're going to move this until we
stop the cause and conditions there is no end if we don't stop there is no end
every stop we have there is an end as I said who can stop not by Buddha not by
not by all the great masters they give the teaching they give the instruction
they give skills and methods all that but we have to do ourself we how we're
going to do with courage commitment joy appreciation both each other that lined
up our nature our nature what that mean nature of our mind nature of our mind
in the Buddha teaching said is love is a compassion is a wisdom what we do now
we doing opposite of that we doing opposite of love activity opposite of
kindness of activity opposite the compassion activity we doing opposite of
the wisdom activities then is samsara we creating samsara
our self we're creating samsara nobody else creating samsara and overloaded us
so therefore we have to stop stop so that is really samsara samsara and
the suffering is a suffering truth again it comes later too so I won't go over
this more it later is coming too but samsara has no end of the difficulty in
the challenge challenge in the troubles even though there is ourself as like
beautiful life and all that but underneath is always something happening
there is is really orbit this just a samsara in the teaching said so is not
something but the samsara this trouble in what we have in human realm is so
important in the teaching said is so good and we have the courage and
commitment confidence this is reminding us to change the direction really is
reminding many times for example according to the teaching God's realm is
so fragile and happy in the peace they never pay any attention of the of the
underneath ground and hell realm is so much troubles or the lower realm is so
much trouble constantly so much trouble they don't have any time to think of
that but we human realm has a mixture good and bad is really so good to bounce
bounce up our courage and commitment reminded to our determination and also
someday we know what trouble is and we know what happiness is happy we have
this thing that the kind of the variety of this choice that makes so strong and
so special is so therefore this human realm is a for that reason Buddha
teaching what is a land of opportunities this is the opportunity you can make the
change you can make the direction wherever you like to go you can you can
make your own destination that's testing that's natural so therefore it is so
so special special soul and there so those are my really brief talk today
I mean though it seems a little mixed up sorry that but you we all in a zoom so
therefore I mean we have freedom more freedom whatever you like to do now so
is nobody is watching you except maybe yourself so now what I'm going to do and
go into a little bit short time stop and then we're going to the healing practice
somehow you don't have the time to do this participatory chilling then you can
leave and as I said you have the really freedom completely if you have time
please join us we do this healing practices in the conquer leading letter
practices with our body get that thinking of everyone even though you
don't have the time your participate I'm so thankful grateful and all this
merit is all that then we will I will share to get with you all those who have
the time okay thank you very much everyone thank you thank you so much
thank you so much everyone again participating and sorry again I said quite
free time but a little bit mixed our time schedules and so thank you thank you
now we do a few minute silent so the study we stopped here in the fifth line
so one two three four fifth fifth line and so then we next time we go over six
lines again go likes slowly as we did a little bit and as I said again since we
all have in a room in individualist places so is something not to kind of
what I have to be maybe kind of like to tie it or to kind of forceful so is it
more really free and more technology is now we are really moving to the 21st
century truly we are 21st century and it also in the we are what's called the
space of the technologies and all this the modern facilities we're using
so please be free and that's it but keep the Dharma in a heart and our
knowledge in a heart really that's so important okay thank you
you